linux_jail.md, before:

The term "jail" on Linux, especially Debian, typically refers to **chroot** (change root), which creates an isolated, 
sandboxed environment for a process by changing its apparent root directory.

- code and documentation.
- first: use debootstrap
- second: pure edition

When use for ai-agent:
- Improved Execution: `sudo chroot "$JAIL_DIR" /usr/bin/setpriv --no-new-privs --clear-groups --reset-env --uid=1000 --gid=1000 --exec /bin/bash -c "$*"`
- Note: This assumes a non-root user (UID/GID 1000) is manually added to the jail's `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/group` files during setup.

-----

# Debootstrap edition

## 🔒 Explanation: Using `chroot` for Sandboxing

The traditional and most common way to create a "jail" or sandbox on Debian is by using the built-in `chroot` command.

1.  **What is `chroot`?**

      * It's a system call that changes the root directory (`/`) for the current process and its children.
      * Once a process is *chrooted*, it cannot access files outside the new root directory, effectively "jailing" it within a subdirectory of the main filesystem.

2.  **How to Build the Jail (The Chroot Environment):**

      * For your worker commands to run inside the jail, the jail directory must contain **all the necessary binaries** (like `bash`, `ls`, or your specific worker command) and **libraries** (the `.so` files these binaries depend on) that the worker needs.
      * A completely empty folder won't work, as the worker needs an environment to execute.

3.  **Security Note:**

      * `chroot` is **not a full security solution** against a determined attacker, especially if the jailed user has **root privileges** inside the jail.
      * For stronger sandboxing, modern tools like **cgroups/namespaces** (used by Docker/LXC) or dedicated tools like **Firejail** or **AppArmor/SELinux** are preferred, but `chroot` is the simplest command-line approach for isolating simple workers.

-----

## 💻 Bash Script: The `jail` Command

This script automates the creation of the chroot environment and runs a command inside it. We'll use `debootstrap` for a more complete environment or manual copying for a minimal one.

  * **Prerequisites:** You must have the `debootstrap` package installed (`sudo apt install debootstrap`).

<!-- end list -->

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# A simple "jail" command using chroot.

# Configuration
JAIL_DIR="/var/chroot/jail_sandbox"
DEBIAN_RELEASE="stable" # Or 'bookworm', 'trixie', etc.

# --- Functions ---

# Function to check if a command exists
command_exists () {
    command -v "$1" >/dev/null 2>&1
}

# Function to display usage information
usage() {
    echo "Usage: $0 <command_to_run> [args...]"
    echo "Example: $0 /bin/ls -l /"
    echo "The command will be executed inside the chroot environment at $JAIL_DIR."
    exit 1
}

# Function to create the basic jail directory structure
create_jail_structure() {
    echo "🔨 Creating basic jail structure in $JAIL_DIR..."
    sudo mkdir -p "$JAIL_DIR"/{bin,etc,lib,lib64,usr,proc,dev}
    
    # Create device nodes needed for basic operation
    sudo mknod -m 666 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/null c 1 3
    sudo mknod -m 666 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/zero c 1 5
    sudo mknod -m 600 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/random c 1 8
    sudo mknod -m 600 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/urandom c 1 9
    
    # Mount necessary filesystems for the jailed process
    # NOTE: These mounts are temporary and disappear after the script finishes.
    # Mounting /proc and /dev is necessary for many modern programs to function.
    sudo mount -t proc proc "$JAIL_DIR"/proc
    
    echo "✅ Jail structure created."
}

# Function to install minimum Debian system using debootstrap
install_debian_system() {
    if ! command_exists debootstrap; then
        echo "🚨 ERROR: 'debootstrap' is not installed. Run: sudo apt install debootstrap"
        exit 1
    fi
    echo "📦 Installing minimal Debian $DEBIAN_RELEASE system into $JAIL_DIR..."
    # The --variant=minbase installs a very minimal set of packages
    sudo debootstrap --variant=minbase "$DEBIAN_RELEASE" "$JAIL_DIR" http://deb.debian.org/debian/
    echo "✅ Minimal Debian system installed."
}

# Function to clean up mounts
cleanup() {
    echo "🧹 Cleaning up mounts..."
    # Unmount /proc if it was mounted
    if mountpoint -q "$JAIL_DIR"/proc; then
        sudo umount "$JAIL_DIR"/proc
    fi
    echo "✅ Cleanup complete."
}

# --- Main Execution ---

# Ensure at least one argument (the command) is provided
if [ $# -eq 0 ]; then
    usage
fi

# 1. Setup/Provision the Jail Environment (Run this only the first time!)
if [ ! -d "$JAIL_DIR/bin" ]; then
    create_jail_structure
    install_debian_system
fi

# 2. Execute the command inside the jail
echo "🚀 Executing command inside jail..."
# The '$@' passes all command line arguments to the chroot command
# The 'setpriv' command is used to drop privileges after the chroot
sudo chroot "$JAIL_DIR" /usr/bin/setpriv --no-new-privs --clear-groups --reset-env "$@"
EXIT_CODE=$?

# 3. Cleanup mounts (important!)
cleanup

echo "🚪 Exited jail. Worker finished with exit code $EXIT_CODE."
exit $EXIT_CODE
```

-----

## 📄 Documentation: Installation and Use

### **`jail` Command Sandbox Setup**

This document explains how to set up and use the custom `jail` command script for sandboxing worker processes on Debian using `chroot`.

### 💾 Installation

1.  **Install Prerequisites:**
    You need the `debootstrap` utility to quickly create a minimal **Debian** filesystem for the jail.

    ```bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install debootstrap
    ```

2.  **Save the Script:**
    Save the provided Bash code into a file named **`jail`** (without an extension).

    ```bash
    nano jail
    # Paste the code here, save, and exit.
    ```

3.  **Make it Executable:**

    ```bash
    chmod +x jail
    ```

4.  **Place it in PATH (Optional):**
    For system-wide use, copy the script to a directory in your system's `$PATH`, like `/usr/local/bin`.

    ```bash
    sudo cp jail /usr/local/bin/
    ```

### ⚙️ Usage

The script automatically sets up the environment in `/var/chroot/jail_sandbox` on the first run.

| Action | Command |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Run a Worker Command** | `./jail <command> [arguments]` |
| **Example: Test basic function** | `./jail /bin/ls -l /` |
| **Example: Run a worker script**| `./jail /bin/bash /work/my_worker.sh` |

  * **Note:** The paths provided to the command must be valid **inside the jail**. For example, `/bin/ls` refers to the `ls` binary *inside* `/var/chroot/jail_sandbox/bin/ls`.

### ⚠️ Security Considerations

  * **DO NOT** run untrusted code inside the jail if the jail is set up to allow root access. `chroot` is not a kernel-level security isolation mechanism.
  * For stronger isolation, consider using **LXC**, **Docker**, or **Firejail**.

-----

## 📜 Manual Page Mockup: `man jail`

Since there is no standard `jail` command on Debian (the standard utility is `chroot`), we will create a mock manual page for the custom script.

```bash
# This command is for generating the manual page content in a format
# that can be read by the 'man' command (a simple troff/groff file).

# To view this in a man-page like format, you would typically use 'groff',
# but the easiest way to generate the content for display is below.

echo '.TH JAIL 1 "November 2025" "Custom Script" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jail \- execute a command inside a chroot sandboxed environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjail\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIarguments\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjail\fR is a wrapper script that uses \fBchroot\fR to create and execute
commands within a secure, isolated sandboxed environment.
This environment is a minimal Debian system located by default at
\fB/var/chroot/jail_sandbox\fR.
.PP
The environment is provisioned using \fBdebootstrap\fR on the first run,
ensuring all necessary libraries and binaries are present for basic
command execution.
.SH OPTIONS
The script does not accept any options itself; all arguments are treated
as the \fIcommand\fR and its \fIarguments\fR to be executed inside the jail.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns the exit status of the executed command inside the chroot.
.SH FILES
\fB/var/chroot/jail_sandbox\fR
.br
The root directory of the chroot environment.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBchroot\fR(1), \fBdebootstrap\fR(8)
' > /tmp/jail.1

# To install the manual page and view it (requires root/sudo access):
# 1. Install to manual directory:
#    sudo cp /tmp/jail.1 /usr/local/man/man1/
# 2. View the manual page:
#    man jail

# NOTE: The above commands are a demonstration. To actually install the man page,
# you would need administrative rights on the system.
```

---

# Pure edition

## 🛠️ Manual Jail Creation: The Minimal Method

Using the manual method ensures your jail is as small as possible, containing **only** the binaries and libraries required for your specific worker command. This is often more secure as it reduces the attack surface.

This is the modified Bash script that uses manual file copying instead of `debootstrap`.

### **Prerequisites**

You must run this setup as **root** (using `sudo`) because it copies system files.

### **The Bash Script: `jail_manual`**

This script includes functions to automatically find and copy the necessary libraries (`ldd` command is used for this).

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Configuration
JAIL_DIR="/var/chroot/jail_manual_sandbox"

# --- Functions ---

# Function to display usage information
usage() {
    echo "Usage: $0 <command_to_run> [args...]"
    echo "Example: $0 /bin/ls -l /"
    echo "The command will be executed inside the chroot environment at $JAIL_DIR."
    echo "The full path to the command MUST be provided, e.g., /bin/bash."
    exit 1
}

# Function to create basic directory structure
create_jail_structure() {
    echo "🔨 Creating basic jail structure in $JAIL_DIR..."
    sudo mkdir -p "$JAIL_DIR"/{bin,etc,lib,lib64,usr,proc,dev}
    
    # Create device nodes needed for basic operation
    # This requires administrative rights
    sudo mknod -m 666 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/null c 1 3
    sudo mknod -m 666 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/zero c 1 5
    sudo mknod -m 600 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/random c 1 8
    sudo mknod -m 600 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/urandom c 1 9
    echo "✅ Jail structure created."
}

# Function to copy a binary and all its dependencies
copy_binary_and_dependencies() {
    local BINARY_PATH="$1"
    local DEST_DIR="$JAIL_DIR"

    if [ ! -f "$BINARY_PATH" ]; then
        echo "🚨 ERROR: Binary not found: $BINARY_PATH"
        return 1
    fi

    echo "📂 Copying binary: $BINARY_PATH"
    # Create the necessary directory structure inside the jail (e.g., /usr/bin -> $JAIL_DIR/usr/bin)
    sudo mkdir -p "$DEST_DIR$(dirname "$BINARY_PATH")"
    sudo cp "$BINARY_PATH" "$DEST_DIR$BINARY_PATH"

    echo "📚 Finding and copying dependencies for $BINARY_PATH..."
    
    # Use ldd to find the required shared libraries and copy them
    ldd "$BINARY_PATH" | while read -r line ; do
        # Extract the library path from the output (e.g., /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6)
        local LIB_PATH=$(echo "$line" | awk '{ print $3 }' | sed 's/)$//')

        if [[ "$LIB_PATH" =~ ^/ ]] && [ -f "$LIB_PATH" ]; then
            local LIB_DIR=$(dirname "$LIB_PATH")
            
            # Create the library directory inside the jail
            sudo mkdir -p "$DEST_DIR$LIB_DIR"
            
            # Copy the library file
            sudo cp -L "$LIB_PATH" "$DEST_DIR$LIB_DIR"
            echo "   -> Copied library: $LIB_PATH"
        fi
    done
}

# Function to clean up mounts
cleanup() {
    echo "🧹 Cleaning up mounts..."
    # Unmount /proc if it was mounted
    if mountpoint -q "$JAIL_DIR"/proc; then
        sudo umount "$JAIL_DIR"/proc
    fi
    echo "✅ Cleanup complete."
}

# --- Main Execution ---

# Check if a command was provided
if [ $# -eq 0 ]; then
    usage
fi

COMMAND_TO_JAIL="$1"

# 1. Setup/Provision the Jail Environment (Run this only the first time!)
# We check for the device nodes to see if the jail is setup
if [ ! -c "$JAIL_DIR/dev/null" ]; then
    echo "--- INITIAL JAIL SETUP ---"
    create_jail_structure
    
    # Copy the command you want to run inside the jail, and its dependencies
    copy_binary_and_dependencies "$COMMAND_TO_JAIL"

    # You MUST copy at least /bin/sh or /bin/bash to handle the shell execution
    copy_binary_and_dependencies /bin/bash
    copy_binary_and_dependencies /bin/ls # A utility that is often useful

    # Copy the dynamic linker/loader itself (essential for execution)
    # The path varies, check your system: /lib/ld-linux.so.2 or /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2
    LD_LOADER=$(/bin/bash -c "ldd /bin/bash | head -1 | awk '{print \$1}'")
    if [ ! -f "$JAIL_DIR/$LD_LOADER" ]; then
        sudo mkdir -p "$JAIL_DIR$(dirname "$LD_LOADER")"
        sudo cp -L "$LD_LOADER" "$JAIL_DIR$LD_LOADER"
        echo "   -> Copied dynamic linker: $LD_LOADER"
    fi

    # Create /etc/passwd and /etc/group (minimal) to allow commands like 'ls -l' to show usernames
    echo "root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash" | sudo tee "$JAIL_DIR"/etc/passwd > /dev/null
    echo "root:x:0:" | sudo tee "$JAIL_DIR"/etc/group > /dev/null
    echo "--- SETUP COMPLETE ---"
fi

# 2. Execute the command inside the jail
echo "🚀 Executing command inside jail..."

# Mount /proc filesystem before running the command
sudo mount -t proc proc "$JAIL_DIR"/proc

# The chroot command requires the path to the executable *inside* the jail
# We use /bin/bash inside the jail to execute the actual command with arguments.
sudo chroot "$JAIL_DIR" /bin/bash -c "$*"
EXIT_CODE=$?

# 3. Cleanup mounts (important!)
cleanup

echo "🚪 Exited jail. Worker finished with exit code $EXIT_CODE."
exit $EXIT_CODE
```

## 📝 Key Differences (Manual vs. `debootstrap`)

| Feature | `debootstrap` Method | Manual Copying Method |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Size** | Larger (minimal Debian base system). | **Minimal** (only what the worker needs). |
| **Complexity** | Easier, automated provisioning. | Requires manual dependency checking (`ldd`). |
| **Security** | Good, but contains more unused files. | **Better isolation** (fewer external tools). |
| **Setup Time** | Slower (downloads and installs packages). | Faster (just copies files). |
| **Dependency Mgmt.**| Automatically handled by Debian's package manager within the jail. | Must be done manually for every required binary. |

- use same "man" setup as other edition

Commit message:

Enhance linux_jail.md with AI agent usage details
Added detailed instructions for using a jail environment with an AI agent, including setup and execution phases.

linux_jail.md, after:

The term "jail" on Linux, especially Debian, typically refers to **chroot** (change root), which creates an isolated, 
sandboxed environment for a process by changing its apparent root directory.

- code and documentation.
- first: use debootstrap
- second: pure edition

**When use for ai-agent**:
- Improved Execution: `sudo chroot "$JAIL_DIR" /usr/bin/setpriv --no-new-privs --clear-groups --reset-env --uid=1000 --gid=1000 --exec /bin/bash -c "$*"`
- Note: This assumes a non-root user (UID/GID 1000) is manually added to the jail's `/etc/passwd` and `/etc/group` files during setup.

**Example Agent Execution Flow**

If the agent needs to run a worker script named /worker/process.sh that takes an input file and produces an output file:

Setup Phase (First Run):
- Agent Action: Execute the jail_manual script, specifying /worker/process.sh as the command.
- Script Result: The script automatically runs create_jail_structure and copy_binary_and_dependencies for /worker/process.sh and /bin/bash, creating the environment.

Execution Phase (Every Run):
- Agent Action 1 (Inject Input): sudo cp /path/to/input.txt "$JAIL_DIR/input.txt"
- Agent Action 2 (Run Worker): sudo chroot "$JAIL_DIR" /bin/bash -c "/worker/process.sh input.txt output.txt"
- Agent Action 3 (Extract Output): sudo cp "$JAIL_DIR/output.txt" /path/to/main_system/result.txt
- Agent Action 4 (Cleanup): The script automatically cleans up the /proc mount and returns the result.

-----

# Debootstrap edition

## 🔒 Explanation: Using `chroot` for Sandboxing

The traditional and most common way to create a "jail" or sandbox on Debian is by using the built-in `chroot` command.

1.  **What is `chroot`?**

      * It's a system call that changes the root directory (`/`) for the current process and its children.
      * Once a process is *chrooted*, it cannot access files outside the new root directory, effectively "jailing" it within a subdirectory of the main filesystem.

2.  **How to Build the Jail (The Chroot Environment):**

      * For your worker commands to run inside the jail, the jail directory must contain **all the necessary binaries** (like `bash`, `ls`, or your specific worker command) and **libraries** (the `.so` files these binaries depend on) that the worker needs.
      * A completely empty folder won't work, as the worker needs an environment to execute.

3.  **Security Note:**

      * `chroot` is **not a full security solution** against a determined attacker, especially if the jailed user has **root privileges** inside the jail.
      * For stronger sandboxing, modern tools like **cgroups/namespaces** (used by Docker/LXC) or dedicated tools like **Firejail** or **AppArmor/SELinux** are preferred, but `chroot` is the simplest command-line approach for isolating simple workers.

-----

## 💻 Bash Script: The `jail` Command

This script automates the creation of the chroot environment and runs a command inside it. We'll use `debootstrap` for a more complete environment or manual copying for a minimal one.

  * **Prerequisites:** You must have the `debootstrap` package installed (`sudo apt install debootstrap`).

<!-- end list -->

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# A simple "jail" command using chroot.

# Configuration
JAIL_DIR="/var/chroot/jail_sandbox"
DEBIAN_RELEASE="stable" # Or 'bookworm', 'trixie', etc.

# --- Functions ---

# Function to check if a command exists
command_exists () {
    command -v "$1" >/dev/null 2>&1
}

# Function to display usage information
usage() {
    echo "Usage: $0 <command_to_run> [args...]"
    echo "Example: $0 /bin/ls -l /"
    echo "The command will be executed inside the chroot environment at $JAIL_DIR."
    exit 1
}

# Function to create the basic jail directory structure
create_jail_structure() {
    echo "🔨 Creating basic jail structure in $JAIL_DIR..."
    sudo mkdir -p "$JAIL_DIR"/{bin,etc,lib,lib64,usr,proc,dev}
    
    # Create device nodes needed for basic operation
    sudo mknod -m 666 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/null c 1 3
    sudo mknod -m 666 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/zero c 1 5
    sudo mknod -m 600 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/random c 1 8
    sudo mknod -m 600 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/urandom c 1 9
    
    # Mount necessary filesystems for the jailed process
    # NOTE: These mounts are temporary and disappear after the script finishes.
    # Mounting /proc and /dev is necessary for many modern programs to function.
    sudo mount -t proc proc "$JAIL_DIR"/proc
    
    echo "✅ Jail structure created."
}

# Function to install minimum Debian system using debootstrap
install_debian_system() {
    if ! command_exists debootstrap; then
        echo "🚨 ERROR: 'debootstrap' is not installed. Run: sudo apt install debootstrap"
        exit 1
    fi
    echo "📦 Installing minimal Debian $DEBIAN_RELEASE system into $JAIL_DIR..."
    # The --variant=minbase installs a very minimal set of packages
    sudo debootstrap --variant=minbase "$DEBIAN_RELEASE" "$JAIL_DIR" http://deb.debian.org/debian/
    echo "✅ Minimal Debian system installed."
}

# Function to clean up mounts
cleanup() {
    echo "🧹 Cleaning up mounts..."
    # Unmount /proc if it was mounted
    if mountpoint -q "$JAIL_DIR"/proc; then
        sudo umount "$JAIL_DIR"/proc
    fi
    echo "✅ Cleanup complete."
}

# --- Main Execution ---

# Ensure at least one argument (the command) is provided
if [ $# -eq 0 ]; then
    usage
fi

# 1. Setup/Provision the Jail Environment (Run this only the first time!)
if [ ! -d "$JAIL_DIR/bin" ]; then
    create_jail_structure
    install_debian_system
fi

# 2. Execute the command inside the jail
echo "🚀 Executing command inside jail..."
# The '$@' passes all command line arguments to the chroot command
# The 'setpriv' command is used to drop privileges after the chroot
sudo chroot "$JAIL_DIR" /usr/bin/setpriv --no-new-privs --clear-groups --reset-env "$@"
EXIT_CODE=$?

# 3. Cleanup mounts (important!)
cleanup

echo "🚪 Exited jail. Worker finished with exit code $EXIT_CODE."
exit $EXIT_CODE
```

-----

## 📄 Documentation: Installation and Use

### **`jail` Command Sandbox Setup**

This document explains how to set up and use the custom `jail` command script for sandboxing worker processes on Debian using `chroot`.

### 💾 Installation

1.  **Install Prerequisites:**
    You need the `debootstrap` utility to quickly create a minimal **Debian** filesystem for the jail.

    ```bash
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install debootstrap
    ```

2.  **Save the Script:**
    Save the provided Bash code into a file named **`jail`** (without an extension).

    ```bash
    nano jail
    # Paste the code here, save, and exit.
    ```

3.  **Make it Executable:**

    ```bash
    chmod +x jail
    ```

4.  **Place it in PATH (Optional):**
    For system-wide use, copy the script to a directory in your system's `$PATH`, like `/usr/local/bin`.

    ```bash
    sudo cp jail /usr/local/bin/
    ```

### ⚙️ Usage

The script automatically sets up the environment in `/var/chroot/jail_sandbox` on the first run.

| Action | Command |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Run a Worker Command** | `./jail <command> [arguments]` |
| **Example: Test basic function** | `./jail /bin/ls -l /` |
| **Example: Run a worker script**| `./jail /bin/bash /work/my_worker.sh` |

  * **Note:** The paths provided to the command must be valid **inside the jail**. For example, `/bin/ls` refers to the `ls` binary *inside* `/var/chroot/jail_sandbox/bin/ls`.

### ⚠️ Security Considerations

  * **DO NOT** run untrusted code inside the jail if the jail is set up to allow root access. `chroot` is not a kernel-level security isolation mechanism.
  * For stronger isolation, consider using **LXC**, **Docker**, or **Firejail**.

-----

## 📜 Manual Page Mockup: `man jail`

Since there is no standard `jail` command on Debian (the standard utility is `chroot`), we will create a mock manual page for the custom script.

```bash
# This command is for generating the manual page content in a format
# that can be read by the 'man' command (a simple troff/groff file).

# To view this in a man-page like format, you would typically use 'groff',
# but the easiest way to generate the content for display is below.

echo '.TH JAIL 1 "November 2025" "Custom Script" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jail \- execute a command inside a chroot sandboxed environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBjail\fR \fIcommand\fR [\fIarguments\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBjail\fR is a wrapper script that uses \fBchroot\fR to create and execute
commands within a secure, isolated sandboxed environment.
This environment is a minimal Debian system located by default at
\fB/var/chroot/jail_sandbox\fR.
.PP
The environment is provisioned using \fBdebootstrap\fR on the first run,
ensuring all necessary libraries and binaries are present for basic
command execution.
.SH OPTIONS
The script does not accept any options itself; all arguments are treated
as the \fIcommand\fR and its \fIarguments\fR to be executed inside the jail.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns the exit status of the executed command inside the chroot.
.SH FILES
\fB/var/chroot/jail_sandbox\fR
.br
The root directory of the chroot environment.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBchroot\fR(1), \fBdebootstrap\fR(8)
' > /tmp/jail.1

# To install the manual page and view it (requires root/sudo access):
# 1. Install to manual directory:
#    sudo cp /tmp/jail.1 /usr/local/man/man1/
# 2. View the manual page:
#    man jail

# NOTE: The above commands are a demonstration. To actually install the man page,
# you would need administrative rights on the system.
```

---

# Pure edition

## 🛠️ Manual Jail Creation: The Minimal Method

Using the manual method ensures your jail is as small as possible, containing **only** the binaries and libraries required for your specific worker command. This is often more secure as it reduces the attack surface.

This is the modified Bash script that uses manual file copying instead of `debootstrap`.

### **Prerequisites**

You must run this setup as **root** (using `sudo`) because it copies system files.

### **The Bash Script: `jail_manual`**

This script includes functions to automatically find and copy the necessary libraries (`ldd` command is used for this).

```bash
#!/bin/bash

# Configuration
JAIL_DIR="/var/chroot/jail_manual_sandbox"

# --- Functions ---

# Function to display usage information
usage() {
    echo "Usage: $0 <command_to_run> [args...]"
    echo "Example: $0 /bin/ls -l /"
    echo "The command will be executed inside the chroot environment at $JAIL_DIR."
    echo "The full path to the command MUST be provided, e.g., /bin/bash."
    exit 1
}

# Function to create basic directory structure
create_jail_structure() {
    echo "🔨 Creating basic jail structure in $JAIL_DIR..."
    sudo mkdir -p "$JAIL_DIR"/{bin,etc,lib,lib64,usr,proc,dev}
    
    # Create device nodes needed for basic operation
    # This requires administrative rights
    sudo mknod -m 666 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/null c 1 3
    sudo mknod -m 666 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/zero c 1 5
    sudo mknod -m 600 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/random c 1 8
    sudo mknod -m 600 "$JAIL_DIR"/dev/urandom c 1 9
    echo "✅ Jail structure created."
}

# Function to copy a binary and all its dependencies
copy_binary_and_dependencies() {
    local BINARY_PATH="$1"
    local DEST_DIR="$JAIL_DIR"

    if [ ! -f "$BINARY_PATH" ]; then
        echo "🚨 ERROR: Binary not found: $BINARY_PATH"
        return 1
    fi

    echo "📂 Copying binary: $BINARY_PATH"
    # Create the necessary directory structure inside the jail (e.g., /usr/bin -> $JAIL_DIR/usr/bin)
    sudo mkdir -p "$DEST_DIR$(dirname "$BINARY_PATH")"
    sudo cp "$BINARY_PATH" "$DEST_DIR$BINARY_PATH"

    echo "📚 Finding and copying dependencies for $BINARY_PATH..."
    
    # Use ldd to find the required shared libraries and copy them
    ldd "$BINARY_PATH" | while read -r line ; do
        # Extract the library path from the output (e.g., /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6)
        local LIB_PATH=$(echo "$line" | awk '{ print $3 }' | sed 's/)$//')

        if [[ "$LIB_PATH" =~ ^/ ]] && [ -f "$LIB_PATH" ]; then
            local LIB_DIR=$(dirname "$LIB_PATH")
            
            # Create the library directory inside the jail
            sudo mkdir -p "$DEST_DIR$LIB_DIR"
            
            # Copy the library file
            sudo cp -L "$LIB_PATH" "$DEST_DIR$LIB_DIR"
            echo "   -> Copied library: $LIB_PATH"
        fi
    done
}

# Function to clean up mounts
cleanup() {
    echo "🧹 Cleaning up mounts..."
    # Unmount /proc if it was mounted
    if mountpoint -q "$JAIL_DIR"/proc; then
        sudo umount "$JAIL_DIR"/proc
    fi
    echo "✅ Cleanup complete."
}

# --- Main Execution ---

# Check if a command was provided
if [ $# -eq 0 ]; then
    usage
fi

COMMAND_TO_JAIL="$1"

# 1. Setup/Provision the Jail Environment (Run this only the first time!)
# We check for the device nodes to see if the jail is setup
if [ ! -c "$JAIL_DIR/dev/null" ]; then
    echo "--- INITIAL JAIL SETUP ---"
    create_jail_structure
    
    # Copy the command you want to run inside the jail, and its dependencies
    copy_binary_and_dependencies "$COMMAND_TO_JAIL"

    # You MUST copy at least /bin/sh or /bin/bash to handle the shell execution
    copy_binary_and_dependencies /bin/bash
    copy_binary_and_dependencies /bin/ls # A utility that is often useful

    # Copy the dynamic linker/loader itself (essential for execution)
    # The path varies, check your system: /lib/ld-linux.so.2 or /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2
    LD_LOADER=$(/bin/bash -c "ldd /bin/bash | head -1 | awk '{print \$1}'")
    if [ ! -f "$JAIL_DIR/$LD_LOADER" ]; then
        sudo mkdir -p "$JAIL_DIR$(dirname "$LD_LOADER")"
        sudo cp -L "$LD_LOADER" "$JAIL_DIR$LD_LOADER"
        echo "   -> Copied dynamic linker: $LD_LOADER"
    fi

    # Create /etc/passwd and /etc/group (minimal) to allow commands like 'ls -l' to show usernames
    echo "root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash" | sudo tee "$JAIL_DIR"/etc/passwd > /dev/null
    echo "root:x:0:" | sudo tee "$JAIL_DIR"/etc/group > /dev/null
    echo "--- SETUP COMPLETE ---"
fi

# 2. Execute the command inside the jail
echo "🚀 Executing command inside jail..."

# Mount /proc filesystem before running the command
sudo mount -t proc proc "$JAIL_DIR"/proc

# The chroot command requires the path to the executable *inside* the jail
# We use /bin/bash inside the jail to execute the actual command with arguments.
sudo chroot "$JAIL_DIR" /bin/bash -c "$*"
EXIT_CODE=$?

# 3. Cleanup mounts (important!)
cleanup

echo "🚪 Exited jail. Worker finished with exit code $EXIT_CODE."
exit $EXIT_CODE
```

## 📝 Key Differences (Manual vs. `debootstrap`)

| Feature | `debootstrap` Method | Manual Copying Method |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Size** | Larger (minimal Debian base system). | **Minimal** (only what the worker needs). |
| **Complexity** | Easier, automated provisioning. | Requires manual dependency checking (`ldd`). |
| **Security** | Good, but contains more unused files. | **Better isolation** (fewer external tools). |
| **Setup Time** | Slower (downloads and installs packages). | Faster (just copies files). |
| **Dependency Mgmt.**| Automatically handled by Debian's package manager within the jail. | Must be done manually for every required binary. |

- use same "man" setup as other edition
